Good morning and give it up for the Brown family.
They were awesome.
Oh, man.
Well, good morning.
We are continuing on in our message series called The Generous Life.
I'm Tim, if you don't know me and I don't know you, I'm glad to get to see you and I hope to get to talk to you today.
You know, I was thinking as I was preparing this message that there are certain things in my life that helped me feel anchored.
For me, a lot of us tied to where I'm from.
I'm sure you've all heard me.
I'm from Cincinnati before.
I'm literally wearing Cincinnati bangles socks right now, even though they're not in the playoffs.
That's right, they're not in the playoffs.
The playoffs are still fun to watch.
Yeah, my home city, my family, the teams I grew up cheering for, the places that feel familiar, greater ice cream, I can just reel off everything that makes me feel connected, that makes me feel grounded, that makes me feel steady.
When we were back home visiting Cincinnati,
I remember the familiar roads and I felt at home, and I'm noticing slowly over three and a half years that when we come back, I feel at home too, which is a good feeling.
When I see your faces, I'll even admit to you, I'm rooting for IU right now.
I know that there's always the Purdue IU rivalry thing here, but I have to admit that selfishly speaking
I'm enjoying that excitement and feeling of people excited for their team to win that I got to feel when I was on my way here when my team was making a fun run in the postseason.
So go IU tomorrow night, even if it just makes me feel a little bit at home.
And I've learned over time that when something makes me feel grounded, I start to hold on to it tighter than I realize.
Anybody else like that?
And it's not because it's bad to hold on to the things that make you feel grounded, that make you feel at home.
But what happens is it starts doing a work in my heart that only God is meant to do.
And that's not just true with places or people.
It could be true with your work, with your own sense of self-control, with your routines,
Even good things like doing ministry or being responsible.
These things you can hold on so tightly to.
And here's what I've noticed.
I don't usually discover what I treasure by what I say.
Just because I say I treasure something doesn't make it true.
I discover what I treasure by what I protect.
What I hold on tightly to.
by what I prioritize, but what I feel anxious about losing.
And Jesus would say that that's not accidental, that we feel that way about things.
It's diagnostic.
I mean, honestly, if we're, anybody ever realize that you can't find your phone, what do you do?
You turn over the entire house to find it.
You can't do the next thing on your plan or go to the next place until you have found it.
That's what it feels like to feel unsettled when you lose control of something that you value that you want to protect.
And that's why Jesus' words in Matthew six, which is one of the two passes we're gonna look at today, are so clarifying and yet so unsettling.
He doesn't start the passage that we're looking at talking about money.
I know the moment that we see the word generous in church, that's where our heads go.
And that is a part of it.
But what Jesus actually talks about is treasure, about what captures our affection, about what quietly shapes our hearts.
And then he says something simple, but searching.
He says, where your treasure is,
There your heart will be also.
Jesus isn't accusing anybody in this passage.
He's revealing something true about all of us.
He's saying, if you want to know what's forming your heart, look at what you're holding on tightly to.
And that's exactly what he exposes gently, but honestly,
in the story of the widow that most people overlooked, which is in Luke 21, which we're going to look at after Matthew 6.
So I want to start with Matthew 6 this morning, and I want us to listen to Jesus carefully today.
Not as someone trying to take something from us, but as a Savior trying to tell us the truth about what's already shaping us.
So please open your Bibles or fall on the screens as we read Matthew 6, 19 through 24.
Jesus says, don't store up for yourselves treasures on earth or moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal.
But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven.
We're neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves don't break in
and steel.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
The eye is the lamp of the body.
If your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light.
But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness.
So if the light within you is darkness, how deep is that darkness?
No one can serve two masters, since either he will hate one
and love the other, or you will be devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve both God and money.
And when Jesus says, do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, he's not just doling out abstract spiritual advice.
He was naming a reality that everyone in his world and in our world already understands, and they understood it deeply at the time that Jesus was speaking.
In the ancient Mediterranean world, wealth was fragile.
They were the haves, and they were a small percentage of the people, and then they were the have-nots, which were everybody else.
And those people were trying to eke out a living, trying to scrape by daily.
When Jesus and another
And since teaches his disciples to pray, to pray that the Father will give them their daily bread, that wasn't just a nicety prayer.
That was people praying who didn't know where their next meal would come from.
What you had was fragile and could be lost.
Treasure could be stolen, corrupted, or lost overnight.
Moss destroyed clothes.
Rust consumed metal.
thieves broke into homes made out of mud and brick.
So Jesus isn't exaggerating when he says this bit about treasures on earth.
He's describing normal life that his hears would have experienced every day.
So when Jesus contrasts treasures on earth with treasures in heaven, he's not contrasting bad things with good things,
He's contrasting temporary security with ultimate security.
And then he makes a statement that reframes everything.
He says, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
And I want us to clue into the direction that Jesus gives here.
He doesn't say where your heart is, your treasure will follow.
He says the opposite.
In other words, Jesus teaches us that what we do with our resources trains our hearts.
Treasure is not the reward of love, it is the revealer of love.
Our spending, saving, giving habits, what we invest in, what we talk about most, what we care about most, expose what we trust, what we fear, and what we believe will carry us through life.
And that's why Jesus immediately moves to the image of the eye.
He says, the eye is the lamp of the body.
And in Jesus' culture at the time of the Jewish people in the first century, the eye was understood as the organ of desire and focus.
A healthier or clear eye didn't just mean good eyesight.
It meant a generous eye, an undivided gaze.
A bad eye instead referred to greed, envy, and stinginess.
So Jesus is saying what you keep your eye on eventually determines what you live for.
Follow your focus to see what you care most about.
So this point is this, if your vision of life is shaped by trust in God, your whole life will be filled with light.
But if your vision is shaped by anxiety and accumulation,
Everything else darkens.
And then Jesus delivers a line that's gonna tie Matthew 6 to the story we'll get to in a moment in Luke 21.
He says, no one can serve two masters.
You cannot serve both God and money.
This is a pretty profound reality.
It's one that is kind of ancient and foreign to us.
We like to talk about love and hate as feelings and emotions,
When Jesus talks about love and hate in this situation, he's talking about a hierarchy of priority.
And only one thing can fill the top spot.
And that one thing that fills the top spot is what you love.
And if only thing can occupy the loved and first position, then two things can occupy it.
So you can't have equal love for God and money.
You can't have equal priority for God and money.
Only one can fill the top spot.
Now what's Jesus not saying?
Well, Jesus isn't saying money is evil.
Money is not a moral thing.
Having money is not evil.
But what he is cautioning is the love of money.
Because the love of money can give money power.
It can give money the ability to demand allegiance, to compete for trust, and eventually
to ask us to worship it and put it in first priority.
And that's where the widow's offering in Luke 21 will become a lived example of this teaching from Jesus in Matthew 6, because Jesus doesn't leave this teaching in the abstract.
He walks into the temple and then he watches.
The rich give large sums, but they give from surplus.
Their security remains intact.
Their treasure stays rooted in what they possess.
They're giving while visible does not rearrange with their dependence.
But the widow, as we'll see, gives all that she had to live on.
So in Matthew 6, her treasure is not stored on earth.
Her heart is not divided.
She is not hedging her bets between God and money.
Her gift reveals where her trust already lies.
That's what Jesus is about to observe.
He's not praising recklessness, he's revealing lordship.
And the widow's small coins expose a massive truth.
The generosity is never about the amount, it's about allegiance.
What matters is not how much is released, but who is being trusted with what you have.
So when Jesus says what you treasure tells the truth about your heart, he's not condemning wealth or idealizing poverty.
He's diagnosing discipleship.
And that's why I want to give us our bottom line today before we get into the Luke 21 story.
And that is that what we treasure most always tells the truth about our hearts.
What we treasure most
always tells the truth about our hearts.
Treasures reveal masters, spending reveals trust, giving reveals worship.
And what you treasure most will always shape who you become.
So I want to look at this story of Jesus observing the poor widow in Luke 21.
It's in verses one through four.
You can follow along.
says Jesus looked up and saw the rich dropping their offerings into the temple treasury.
And he also saw poor widow dropping in two tiny coins.
Truly I tell you, he said, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.
For all these people have put in gifts out of their surplus, but she out of her poverty has put in all she had to live on.
When Luke tells the story of the widow's offering, he wants his disciples to see something the culture around them would have missed.
In Jesus' world, wealth didn't just mean that you had more money.
Wealth automatically carried status.
It placed you in the leadership and the ruling class.
And that meant that when wealthy people gave publicly, they're giving tended to be read as both generous and admirable,
because cultural assumptions already treated the rich as the important people.
So I love the way that Luke is careful with his wording in this story.
He tells us that Jesus observes that the rich put in large sums, but then he adds a detail that changes the way we evaluate the whole story.
They gave out of their abundance.
It didn't hurt.
It didn't hurt them one bit to give.
They gave out of what was left over, what was surplus for them, and what they could spare without any real cost to their daily life.
Because much like or against what the common people, the 95% or more were living, they didn't have to worry about where their next meal was coming from.
But the widow is different.
Luke says that she gave out of her poverty.
Not out of what she had extra, but out of what she lacked.
She gave from what was insufficient even for her own support.
What she had wouldn't have gone very far, but she gave it away anyway.
Her gift was not an impressive amount.
No one watching her would have been like, wow, I can't believe you're giving such a large gift.
It was costly and proportion to what she had, and it demanded trust.
And that's why Jesus slows the moment down.
So his disciples don't miss what the world would have applauded and what God actually sees.
It's important for us to pause for a moment and consider what Jesus notices and what we often miss.
And this is where Jesus would have shocked his disciples.
He tells his disciples that heard small gift, the gift that would have seemed insignificant to everybody else, is greater than what the others were putting in the plates.
That idea that a poor person's small offering could be more meaningful than a rich person's large offering wasn't completely unheard of in the ancient world.
There are some parallels in Greek and Jewish traditions, but Jesus' evaluation still is radical because it's impractical.
If you think about her survival, it almost sounds irresponsible.
And that's the point.
Jesus isn't giving financial planning advice here.
Jesus isn't interested in telling his disciples how to get rich.
He's revealing what God values.
And for Jesus, that's all that matters.
In the kingdom of God, the value of the gift isn't measured by the number on it.
It's measured by the heart behind it.
The quality of the offering, trust, surrender, dependence matters more than the sum of the offering.
And Luke is doing something else at the same time.
See, in the ancient world,
How someone used their possessions was not seen as private.
Possessions function like a barometer of faithfulness.
People measured commitment by what they did with what they had.
And even more, economic sharing was tied to social belonging.
To share without expecting anything in return was to treat someone as kin, as family.
That's why when Jesus tells the
rich ruler in another story to sell what he has and give it to the poor, he's not merely asking for charity, he's inviting a reordering of loyalty, relationships, and identity as one embodied by expression of devotion to God.
And that's what Jesus catches in this story in Luke 21.
Jesus isn't praising the widow because she's poor.
He's praising her because her money
is not her master.
She is not serving money.
Her treasure isn't in what she keeps.
Her treasure is in God.
And that connects directly to what Jesus teaches in Matthew 6.
Jesus came to announce God's reversal of human standards, where worth is not measured by power, wealth, or visibility.
In God's kingdom,
And God's kingdom, the rich, aren't automatically the faithful.
And the poor aren't automatically forgotten.
God sees what others overlook.
God honors what others dismiss.
And so the widow's offering becomes a living picture of Jesus' point.
The question isn't how much did she give.
The question is, what did her giving reveal about what she treasured the most?
Jesus' teaching here isn't about money.
It's about direction.
He's teaching us your life will move toward wherever and whatever you treasure.
Your attention will drift toward it.
Your energy will be shaped by it.
Your decisions will orbit about it because treasure doesn't just sit somewhere.
It pulls into its direction.
And that's why Jesus doesn't say, don't have treasure.
He says, be careful where you store it.
Because where your treasure is, your heart will follow.
And that's what the widow reveals in Luke 21.
She doesn't give because she has to.
She gives because something else matters more than holding on.
Her small gift exposes a big truth, that what we value most shows up and what we protect
in what we pursue and what we're willing to release and to let go of.
And so we're invited not to feel guilty, but to look honestly.
Not to audit our bank accounts, but to notice what's been quietly forming us.
Not to ask how generous am I, but what it is that I value the most.
Because generosity is always downstream
from value.
If I value security above all, I will store and protect.
If I value comfort above all, I will spend and consume.
If I value status above all, I will display and accumulate.
And if I value God's kingdom above all, I will invest beyond myself.
Jesus is asking us to notice what already has
our affection.
And this is detention.
Most of us don't consciously choose our treasures.
They slowly choose us.
I talked at the beginning about, you know, I'm a Cincinnati guy.
You think if you look at the record of the Cincinnati Bengals that I would have chose them myself, that's my mom's fault, okay?
I was born into it.
It's in my blood.
That's why Jesus gives us this warning.
You can't serve both God and money.
Not because money is evil, but because it can be powerful, compete for attention, and shape imagination.
Everything that we are pulled toward that chooses us competes for our time, our attention, and our devotion.
It's not even just about money.
It's about everything that pulls us in.
And if we're honest and we take a look inside, we've all got something that pulls us in.
I know I do.
And Jesus loves us too much to let something temporary define something eternal.
So what does it look like in everyday life?
Well first, Jesus invites us to relocate our treasure.
Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, Jesus says.
He's not saying don't plan.
He's saying don't confuse planning with purpose.
Earthly treasure wears out.
It breaks.
It depreciates.
It gets left behind.
You can't take it with you.
Heavenly treasure lasts because it's invested in people.
Faithfulness, obedience, love, generosity, and the work God is doing in the world for the sake of the kingdom, which means generosity isn't about losing something, it's about placing it somewhere better.
Second, Jesus invites us to retrain our vision.
He says, the eye is the lamp of the body.
Jesus knows that what we look at long enough eventually shapes what we love.
If our vision is fixed on what we own, what we lack, or what others have, our hearts become divided.
But when our vision is fixed on God's kingdom, on what He is doing, on who He is forming us to become, our lives gain clarity.
This is not about trying harder, it's about looking differently.
And third, Jesus invites us to re-center our allegiance.
He says, no one can serve two masters.
This is not a threat.
It's mercy.
Jesus is naming reality.
Something will always be at the center.
Something will always set the agenda in our lives.
And whatever sits at the center quietly shapes the choices that we make.
So Jesus asks, who or what?
is worthy of that place.
And this is where the gospel speaks most clearly.
Because before Jesus ever asks us to treasure him, he treasured us.
At the cross, Jesus gave what he valued most, his life, not because we were generous, but because we were loved by him.
He trusted the Father with everything so we wouldn't have to live
clinging to temporary things, which means Christian generosity is not about proving our devotion to God.
It's about responding to his devotion to us.
We don't invest in God's kingdom to earn grace.
We invest because grace has already found us.
So here's a simple invitation of what Jesus is teaching and what he observes with this widow.
Pay attention to what you value and let Jesus gently over time reshape it.
Not all at once, not perfectly, but intentionally.
Because what we treasure most will always tell the truth about our hearts.
And Jesus isn't trying to take something from us.
He's inviting us into a life where what matters most lasts forever.
Now, one of the details in Luke's story about the poor widow that keeps getting my attention every time I read this story is this.
Jesus notices her.
That's the very first part of the story.
Before he says his observation, before he pulls his disciples over, he simply notices this poor woman.
Not from a distance, not accidentally, not as a teaching prop.
He sees her in a crowded temple surrounded by larger gifts and more impressive people, more secure, more faithful on the surface people.
Jesus sees her.
He values her.
And Jesus does not call her out.
He doesn't embarrass her.
He doesn't turn her story into a command for everyone else.
I don't know if you noticed, but when you're reading the story, Jesus doesn't get up and teach everybody and say, everybody, look at this poor widow, look what she did.
He teaches quietly to his disciples that are nearby.
And he simply tells them the truth about what he sees.
In her he sees trust, he sees love, and he sees a heart.
that has placed its hopes somewhere deeper than anything this world can offer us.
And what strikes me in this story is that Jesus doesn't just say she gave more because she was better than everybody else.
He says she gave more because she gave herself.
That's what treasure really is.
Treasure isn't what we own.
It's what owns us.
It's what we cling to when life feels unstable.
It's what we protect when we feel anxious.
It's what we quietly, it's what quietly tells us, if I have this, I'll be okay.
And Jesus doesn't expose that to shame us.
He exposes it to heal us.
Because he knows this to be true.
Whatever holds our heart will eventually shape our life.
And that's why Jesus says, where your treasure is, there your heart
will be also.
Not as a threat, not as pressure, but as an invitation to ask, what have I been asking to give me peace?
What have I been asking to give me control?
What have I been asking to make me feel safe?
And then to place that trust where it actually belongs, at the cross Jesus gave what he treasured most his life for hours.
He didn't give from excess, he didn't give what was convenient, he gave himself the whole thing.
So when Jesus looks at us, he's not first asking, how much did you give?
He's asking, where's your heart resting?
And the good news is this, just like Jesus saw that woman in the temple, Jesus sees you and me.
He knows us, and he invites us again and again
to reorder our lives, not to keep up appearances, not to prove our faith, but to live free.
Because when Christ becomes our treasure, everything else finds its proper place.
Wherever you are right now, Jesus is not asking for a performance.
He's inviting a reordering of love.
None of the things that we count as treasure
are inherently bad.
But Jesus calls us to treasure him and the kingdom as first priority so that everything else finds its proper place in our lives.
I hope that when he came in today, you got a communion packet.
Jesus gave his life
so that we could have life and have it to the full.
He gave his life before we valued him.
He gave his life while we were still sinners.
He gave us his life while our priorities were still out of whack.
He made the first move because he loves us.
And he calls us to love him in response.
And one of the ways that we show love
to Jesus' to be obedient to him and on the night that he was betrayed, Jesus took bread and he broke it and he gave it to his disciples as they were gathered around the meal and he said, take this and eat.
This is my body which is given for you.
And in the same way he had them pass a cup and he said, take this and drink.
This is my blood which is poured out for you.
And then he said to them, he said, do this in remembrance of me.
That's the command, do this.
Every time we take communion, it's one step each Sunday where Jesus is working on each and every one of us to reorient our lives toward Him.
Because it's a moment where we can be obedient and to say, I trust you with my life because you gave yours first.
What good news it is that Jesus gave us His life.
that God showed us mercy and grace through His Son.
So I'm gonna give us a moment right now to pause and reflect on God's goodness, His grace, His mercy.
And after that moment of reflection, we'll take communion together as one church family.
each and every one of you to take the bread and eat, this is his body which is given for us.
And likewise, I invite you to take and drink from this cup, this is his blood which is poured out.
Please pray with me.
Dear Lord God, we thank You for this morning.
We thank You that while You call us to be generous, we know that You took the first step.
You ask us to respond to what You've already done and what You've already done is more than enough.
And I pray, Lord, that as we contemplate the high bar that you set for our lives, that through your grace and mercy, you do not leave us to our own devices to jump high and reach it.
But that through your grace and the power of your spirit, you help to reshape us and reorient us day by day while we
Make mistake after mistake.
You don't give up on us, but you pick us back up and keep us going along on that journey.
Pray that you'll continue to mold each and every one of us into your disciples so that we'll glorify you with our lives and so that we'll be light to the world around us, that we will look to others and see their value through your eyes
See the way that your kingdom desires to shape this world, to save it, to rescue it.
We thank you so much for being good to us, for working through us, and for helping us along the way.
And it's in your son, Jesus, the same way, pray.
Amen.